Your task here was to define the linear layers to make up a simple autoencoder.
The encoder will be responsible for compressing an input image,
then the last layer will use
that compressed representation to produce a reconstructed output image.
If you want to get more complicated with this,
you could stack up more and more linear layers as many layers as you want.
As long as you have a midpoint where
the outputs represent your compressed representation.
In this case, no matter how many layers you define,
you want the output to be 784 units to match our original input image vector.
This way, we can compare the reconstructed output directly with the input values.
So, here's my solution.
In this example, I've defined the encoder and
decoder as being made of one linear layer each.
The encoder sees our 784 pixel inputs and produces a specified number of outputs.
This output is a compressed representation that is encoding dim units long.
In this example, this value is 32.
So, this layer is going from 784 inputs to 32.
Then I just reverse this process in the decoder portion.
Here, I've created one linear layer that sees these 32 values as input and
transforms them back into the larger 784 value long image vector.
In the forward function, I've applied a relu activation to
the encoder layer and a sigmoid to scale the values that have been output by the decoder.
The exits returned will contain 784 normalized grayscale pixel values.
Here I've instantiated the model with an encoding them of 32. Next comes training.
To train your network, you have to define appropriate loss and optimization functions.
I'm going to help with this bit.
Now, this is not our usual classification task.
So we're actually going to be using a different kind of loss.
We're using a mean squared error rather than cross entropy.
MSE loss is a good loss to use when comparing
pixel quantities rather than class probabilities.
I'll also use an Adam optimizer rather than gradient descent.
Simply because it's been proven to work better in these scenarios.
Then in the training loop,
the epochs and looping through batches of data should look pretty familiar.
The main thing to note here is that we are only using the images from the train loader.
We're actually not interested in any labels
only in original images and the reconstructions.
Here, I have to flatten these images and then pass those vectors to our model.
Our model returns reconstructed image outputs.
Then finally, we're comparing the input images and this output reconstructed image.
So our loss is actually telling us how
good of a reconstructed image our model has produced.
After all of this, later down the notebook,
I've also provided some code for you to test out your model by
giving it some test images and visualizing the reconstructed images.
All right. Next I'm going to talk about how your training loss
might look overtime and show you some reconstructed images.